#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass ociamthesis-lyx
\options a4paper,titlepage
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language spanish
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
newpage{
\backslash
pagestyle{empty}
\backslash
cleardoublepage}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
\size larger
\noun on
Key Words
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Network, Multiplayer Videogame, Online, Dead Reckoning, Prediction Techniques,
 Unity3D y EoS.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
\size larger
\noun on
Abstract
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Videogame’s industry generated more than 93000 million dollars worldwide
 in 2013 and it is anticipated that it will reach 111000 million in 2015.
 Undoubtedly, it is a booming industry that makes good use of the innovations
 to offer an increasingly demanding quality experience to its players.
 The number of users that play to while away some time, to learn or even
 to train in environments similar to professionals is increasing.
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of all of them, the online multiplayer games stand out for their interaction
 with other player and their technical difficulties.
 These kind of videogames recreate a more realistic and complex virtual
 world where the users interact more with the scene and between them.
 The objective is that these simulations created by each of the different
 users, look like one, so that the players’ actions seem to take place in
 the same world, obtaining that way a good game experience.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, the present networks do not guarantee the service quality requirements
 (latency, bandwidth, jitter, fenced packet probability, …) to these sort
 of applications.
 These factors cause a lack of coherence between the distant simulations
 that cause accuracy errors, erratic movements and even the total loss of
 the connexion, that provokes an unsatisfied player.
 In order to provide a satisfactory user-experience to each player over
 present networks, it is necessary to implement multiple techniques and
 schemas that reduce the adverse network factors.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Between the different techniques to minimize the problems that the games
 and simulations confront, we find the movement prediction techniques or
 dead reckoning.
 These techniques try to mitigate the adverse effect produced by sending
 an actualization of the game state and it is delayed or gets lost.
 The result of this delay or packet loss provokes that the scene objects
 stay in incorrect places in that time instant.
 When this happens, the objects use the last known position, so the movement
 of the game objects is very unnatural.
 The user perceives these non-fluent trajectories negatively.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To lighten this problem, the prediction techniques are focused in estimating
 the future trajectory positions of the moving elements in the game.
 This is done using the past information from the remote objects.
 In particular, they use as earlier information, parameters such as position,
 velocity, acceleration and elapsed time to estimate the trajectory.
 This way when the real position comes, the difference or error between
 the real position and the estimated one will be lower or even non-existent,
 so the player observers a soft movement similar to the movement of those
 objects in the real world.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Additionally, the dead reckoning techniques allow reducing the bandwidth
 usage required by the game, because if the error in the prediction is low
 enough, the frequency of actualization information sending can be reduced.
 The project centres in the adaptation and implementation of the most common
 prediction technique in the bibliography: the derivate polynomials.
 In this project, an online multiplayer videogame called End of Shooter
 (EoS) has been developed.
 EoS is a First Person Shooter (FPS), a videogame gender that is characterised
 by requiring a high level of interactivity in real time between the characters
 and other entities.
 This is the main reason to choose these kind of games, because it is a
 great environment to evaluate the selected prediction techniques.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The game has been developed with the Unity3D platform owing to the numerous
 facilities that it provides for videogame development.
 Besides, it has a big online support and provides many free resources to
 use.
 To apply the prediction techniques, new scripts have been developed and
 assigned to each character.
 These scripts are in charge of sending and receiving the characters’ movement
 actualizations.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To evaluate the prediction techniques different movement aspects from the
 online characters are measured.
 The first of them consists in measuring the character's movement fluidity,
 measuring the remote characters’ movement fluctuations.
 The second aspect is the characters’ movement behaviour when the actualization
 rate is reduced, which reduces the server transmission rate.
 Finally, it studies the errors in the trajectories when an online packet
 loss rate is introduced.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As a result, in every case a remarkable improvement has been seen when using
 the prediction techniques instead of the default online option of Unity3D.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
