#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass ociamthesis-lyx
\options a4paper,titlepage
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language spanish
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
newpage{
\backslash
pagestyle{empty}
\backslash
cleardoublepage}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
\size larger
\noun on
Key Words
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
DDoS, Machine Learning, Classifiers, Credal Decision Trees (CDTs).
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
\size larger
\noun on
Abstract
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Network security has become one of the most important factors to consider
 as the Internet evolves.
 DDoS attacks are the most important attacks that affect the availability
 of service from decades until today, in other words, they cause the service
 or resources offered by a computer or network system to be unfeasible by
 legitimate users.
 Therefore, these resources must be protected from DDoS attacks.
 Since its inception have been countless DDoS attacks that have been carried
 out against different companies, entities and services.
 That is why the need for these entities to protect their resources and
 services they offer.
 The detection of a DDoS attack is a complicated task that encompasses many
 factors and evolves, so it requires adaptive learning.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Traffic patterns exhibited by traffic that includes DDoS attacks can be
 effectively captured by machine learning algorithms.
 This paper explains in detail the different DDoS attacks as well as current
 detection mechanisms.
 Subsequently its main objective is to be able to give an evaluation and
 classification of some of the supervised learning algorithms with the aim
 of reducing errors and time while maintaining the detection accuracy.
 As a novelty, credal decision trees or CDTs are added to study their behavior
 against the detection of DDoS attacks.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The database used is called KDD Cup 1999, a small selection of the data
 set of the 1999 KDD contest.
 From this database, four cases have been studied to see the different behaviors
 of the algorithms.
 The simulations of the algorithms have been carried out with their implementati
on in the WEKA program, a software platform for machine learning and data
 mining.
 For the evaluation the accuracy of the algorithms is measured as well as
 the time that they have taken to execute.
 In addition, different tests are performed for comparison.
 This evaluation demonstrates the effectiveness of classifiers for the detection
 of DDoS attacks.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
